# Falling_Utopia

-Summary- <br>
In the year 3084, man has finally constructed floating cities called “Utopias”, cities that will never fall. The scientists who designed and planned the construction of the cities were so confident in the safety of the cities, no emergency vehicles or safety measures were planned in the event of a serious mishap. Unfortunately, on the day of the launch misfortune hits the cities and there was a great fire...the fire spread at an insane speed and the citizens evacuated to the tunnels below the floating cities that led to nowhere except a great fall. With no other choice, the citizens of Utopia began to leap to their deaths. A young smart soldier manning the cannon from the ground saw the falling citizens and quickly changed the rounds in his cannon to parachutes hoping to save as many lives as possible...but will the soldier succeed? 

Falling Utopia is a one-player game that was originally created within a span of two weeks during Concordia's creative computation I (CART 253) class in 2013. Later, it was decided that the game would be developed and polished into a mobile application game with the focus on creating a smoother gameplay experience, more finished level design as well as visual graphics, and a revised controller scheme. The goal of the research while developing the game was to devise a lightweight workflow that would allow creators who may not have deep knowledge of computer programming to develop a game into an IOS app. The original prototype was made in Processing, and as versatile as this programming language can be, it is very inefficient for games in general; therefore, the game would be exported to a suitable game engine.

The idea of the game was inspired by the movies Titanic and Castle in the Sky. If there was a hero who could have saved everyone, then what would have happened? The concept of the game is to save people leaping to their deaths from a floating city. The main character, being the user will need to maneuver a cannon and shoot out parachutes towards the people falling from the floating city. As soon as the parachute hits the falling character, it will activate the parachute and the character will slowly fall to safety. There are 3 levels in this game, as each level is passed, the fire in the city will grow fiercer signifying the next level and the difficulty will increase. At each new level, new types of falling people with more complex fall mechanics will be introduced to keep the player on his toes and give variety to the gameplay.

*NOTE* Make sure to unzip the libiPhone-lib.a.zip inside the libraries folder. 
FallingUtopiaApp>>Libraries>>libiPhone-lib.a.zip <br>

For more information visit http://fallingutopia.comlu.com/
